README.md, before:

# BluetoothDevicePairing
Console utility to discover and pair or connect to Bluetooth and Bluetooth Low Energy devices.

# System requirements
Windows 10 1809 (10.0.17763) or higher

# How to use
* Download and unpack the latest [release](https://github.com/PolarGoose/BluetoothDevicePairing/releases).
* Run `BluetoothDevicePairing.exe --help` and `BluetoothDevicePairing.exe <command> --help` to get usage information and check the `Examples` section bellow.

# Examples
* Discover devices:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe discover
```
* Pair and connect to a device using its mac address:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe pair-by-mac --mac 12:34:56:78:9A:BC --type Bluetooth
```
* Pair and connect to a device using its name:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe pair-by-name --name "MX Ergo" --type BluetoothLE
```
* Pair and connect to a device using its name and pin code:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe pair-by-name --name "Device name" --type BluetoothLE --pin 1234
```
* Pair and connect to a device using its mac and pin code:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe pair-by-mac --mac 12:34:56:78:9A:BC --type Bluetooth --pin 1234
```
* Unpair a device using its mac address:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe unpair-by-mac --mac 12:34:56:78:9A:BC --type Bluetooth
```
* Unpair a device using its name:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe unpair-by-name --name "MX Ergo" --type BluetoothLE
```
* List all Bluetooth adapters available you your machine
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe list-adapters
```

# How it works
The program uses [Windows.Devices.Enumeration API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/Windows.Devices.Enumeration?redirectedfrom=MSDN&view=winrt-22000) to work with Bluetooth.

## Device pairing by mac
The utility gets the default bluetooth adapter and generates the bluetooth device id using combination of bluetooth type, adapter mac address and device's mac address. Using this id, it is possible to request to pair or unpair the device.

## Device pairing by name
The utility discovers all available devices (for unpairing only paired devices are checked) and tries to find a device with the required name. After that pairing or unpairing is requested for found device. The command will fail if there are several devices with the same name.

# Return values
In case of failure the command returns value `-1`. In case of success the `0` is returned.

# Build
* Use `Visual Studio 2022` to open the solution file and work with the code
* Run `.github/workflows/build.ps1` to build a release (to run this script `git.exe` should be in your PATH)

# References
* [Windows.Devices.Enumeration API usage examples](https://github.com/microsoft/Windows-universal-samples/tree/master/Samples/DeviceEnumerationAndPairing)

Commit message:

* Reduce the size of the published executable by using .Net Framework which is present by default on all supported versions of Windows 10 and higher. * Use Costura Fody to make a single executable. * Improve the Readme file.

README.md, after:

# BluetoothDevicePairing
Console utility to discover and pair Bluetooth and Bluetooth Low Energy devices.

# Note on connecting to Bluetooth devices
If you pair a device which is not already paired, the utility will also connect to it (this is default behaviour of Windows Bluetooth API)<br>
However, if device is paired but not connected, the pairing will fail.<br>
Unfortunately, currently it is not possible to simulate what "Connect" button from Windows `Bluetooth and Other devices` dialog does.
More details can be found here: [How to connect to a paired audio Bluetooth device](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62502414/how-to-connect-to-a-paired-audio-bluetooth-device-using-windows-uwp-api). Specifically, [here](https://github.com/inthehand/32feet/issues/132#issuecomment-1019786324) I have described my failed attempts to implement this functionality.<br>

# System requirements
Windows 10 1809 (10.0.17763) or higher

# How to use
* Download and unpack the latest [release](https://github.com/PolarGoose/BluetoothDevicePairing/releases).
* Run `BluetoothDevicePairing.exe --help` and `BluetoothDevicePairing.exe <command> --help` to get usage information and check the `Examples` section bellow.

# Examples
* Discover devices:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe discover
```
* Pair a device using its mac address:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe pair-by-mac --mac 12:34:56:78:9A:BC --type Bluetooth
```
* Pair a device using its name:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe pair-by-name --name "MX Ergo" --type BluetoothLE
```
* Pair a device using its name and pin code:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe pair-by-name --name "Device name" --type BluetoothLE --pin 1234
```
* Pair a device using its mac and pin code:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe pair-by-mac --mac 12:34:56:78:9A:BC --type Bluetooth --pin 1234
```
* Unpair a device using its mac address:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe unpair-by-mac --mac 12:34:56:78:9A:BC --type Bluetooth
```
* Unpair a device using its name:
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe unpair-by-name --name "MX Ergo" --type BluetoothLE
```
* List all Bluetooth adapters available you your machine
```
BluetoothDevicePairing.exe list-adapters
```

# How it works
The program uses
* [Windows.Devices.Enumeration API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/Windows.Devices.Enumeration?redirectedfrom=MSDN&view=winrt-22000) to work with Bluetooth.
* [Costura Fody](https://github.com/Fody/Costura) to create a single file executable.

## Device pairing by name
In order to pair a device by name, the utility starts with discovering all available devices and tries to find a device with the required name. After a device is found its mac address is used to request pairing. The command will fail if there are several devices with the same name.

# Return values
In case of failure the command returns value `-1`. In case of success the `0` is returned.

# Build
* Use `Visual Studio 2022` to open the solution file and work with the code
* Run `.github/workflows/build.ps1` to build a release (to run this script `git.exe` should be in your PATH)

# References
* [Windows.Devices.Enumeration API usage examples](https://github.com/microsoft/Windows-universal-samples/tree/master/Samples/DeviceEnumerationAndPairing)
* [Windows.Devices.Enumeration Namespace](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/Windows.Devices.Enumeration)
